#This is short description of Apache Qpid (http://qpid.apache.org/) plugin for HermesJms (http://www.hermesjms.com/). 

It consists of:
- Description of Apache Qpid features
- How to enable it in the HermesJms 1.14 trunk
- Description of some limitations


== Apache Qpid features ==
Due to https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/QPID-3302 it uses Apache Qpid trunk build (aka 0.11 and build to version 0.13)
It works with c++ broker version 0.8 and I suppose it should work with further versions as well.
Many thanks to
- Gordon Sim
- Fraser Adams
from Qpid mail list (users@qpid.apache.org) for help

AMQP define some kind of objects, and the plugin works only with queues. 
It is ready to use such Qpid things as exchanges, bindings and so on. I don't know how to display them in Hermes.

The following features should work:
- destination auto discovery
- destination properties
- message browsing, message changing and sending.
- message backuping to local store


== How-to enable it in the HermesJms ==
Edit hermes.jar\hermes\impl\confighelper.properties :
- add to the end of the property admin.factories one more value ,ru.troika.cto.hermes.plugin.QpidAdminFactory
- add one more property ru.troika.cto.hermes.plugin.QpidAdminFactory=hermes-qpid-plugin-0.1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar,Qpid

Copy hermes-qpid-plugin-0.1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar to $HERMES_HOME/lib

Enable BURL for Qpid. To do it add -Dqpid.dest_syntax="BURL" as java param. I have done it by ediditg $HERMES_HOME/bin/hermes.bat
start "HermesJMS" "%JAVA_HOME%\bin\javaw" -XX:NewSize=256m -Xmx1024m -Dhermes.home="%HERMES_HOME%" %HERMES_OPTS% -Dlog4j.configuration="file:%HERMES_HOME%\bin\log4j.props" -Dsun.java2d.noddraw=true -Dhermes="%HERMES_CONFIG%\hermes-config.xml" -Dhermes.libs="%HERMES_LIBS%" -Djava.compiler=NONE  -Dqpid.dest_syntax="BURL" hermes.browser.HermesBrowser

Place somewhere on the disc the following libs (aka provider libs):
backport-util-concurrent-2.2.jar
geronimo-jms_1.1_spec-1.0.jar
mina-core-1.0.1.jar
mina-filter-ssl-1.0.1.jar
qpid-all.jar
qpid-client-0.13.jar
qpid-common-0.13.jar
slf4j-api-1.6.1.jar
slf4j-log4j12-1.6.1.jar


Run HermesJms. Create new provider with name "qpid", and set the libraries to provider libs stored before, select rescan.
In the session tab select loader "qpid", select plugin "Qpid".
In plugin properties add brokerUrl property. For example
amqp://guest:guest@/?brokerlist='tcp://localhost:5672'
In Connection Factory properties select org.apache.qpid.client.AMQConnectionFactory
Setup the following properties:
- connectionURL amqp://guest:guest@/?brokerlist='tcp://localhost:5672'
- host localhost
- port 5672
- virtualPath /
It is needed to duplicate properties in plugin and connection factory settings. 
Plugin properties are used to auto discover destinations and connection factory properties are used to view and send messages.
Try to auto discover destinations. The destination with name, like GUID used for QMF communication and should be auto-deleted.
I'm not sure, may be HermesJms restart required.


== Some limitations ==
- only BURL works.
- Qpid API from trunk (0.11)


= Introduction =

Add your content here.
[http://www.hermesjms.com/confluence/display/HJMS/Home HermesJMS]

[http://qpid.apache.org/ Apache Qpid]

= Details =

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages